docs(chart):add waterfall chart docs (#1582)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/chart/types/waterfall.md

A Waterfall Chart is useful for different types of quantitative analysis related to inventory, cash flows, performance, etc.

![waterfall chart](images/waterfall-chart.png)

@[template](/_contentTemplates/chart/link-to-basics.md#understand-basics-and-databinding-first)

## Creating a Waterfall Chart

1. Add a `ChartSeries` tag to the `ChartSeriesItems` collection.
2. Set its `Type` parameter to `ChartSeriesType.Waterfall` or `ChartSeriesType.HorizontalWaterfall`.
3. Provide a data collection to its `Data` parameter.
4. (optional) Set the `SummaryField` to add a summary column. Summary columns can be two types:
   * `runningTotal`—This column shows the cumulative sum of all items since the last running total point.
   * `total`—This column displays the sum of all preceding items.

To define a data item as a running total or total, include a corresponding data point in the data source and set the `SummaryField` value as either `runningTotal` or `total`.

>caption A Waterfall Chart that shows cash flow

````CSHTML
<TelerikChart Width="100%"
              Height="400px">

>     <ChartTitle Text="Cash flow"></ChartTitle>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <ChartTitle Text="Cash Flow"></ChartTitle>
```

                Color = "red"
            },
            new CashFlowData
            {
                Period = "May",
                Amount = -18000,
                Color = "red"
            },
            new CashFlowData
            {
                Period = "Jun",
                Amount = 10000,
                Color = "green"
            },
            new CashFlowData
            {
                Period = "Q2",
                Summary = "runningTotal",
                Color = "gray"
            },
            new CashFlowData
            {
                Period = "Ending\nBalance",
                Summary = "total",
                Color = "#555"
            }
        };
    }

    private class CashFlowData
    {
        public string Period { get; set; }
        public decimal? Amount { get; set; }
        public string Summary { get; set; }
        public string Color { get; set; }
    }
}
````

## Waterfall Chart Specific Appearance Settings

The Waterfall Chart provides dedicated properties that allow you to customize its appearance by controlling its [orientation](#orientation), [labels](#labels), and [color](#color).

### Orientation

> Waterfall Charts fall into two types: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Waterfall Charts fall into two types: 

```

---
title: Waterfall
page_title: Chart - Waterfall

> description: The Telerik UI for Blazor Waterfall Chart illustrates the cumulative effects of positive or negative values from а starting point. Its purpose is to enhance comprehension of how an initial amount is impacted by subsequently added positive or negative values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: The Telerik UI for Blazor Waterfall Chart illustrates the cumulative effects of positive or negative values from a starting point. Its purpose is to enhance comprehension of how an initial amount is impacted by subsequently added positive or negative values.
```

> description: The Telerik UI for Blazor Waterfall Chart illustrates the cumulative effects of positive or negative values from the starting point. Its purpose is to enhance comprehension of how an initial amount is impacted by subsequently added positive or negative values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: The Telerik UI for Blazor Waterfall Chart illustrates the cumulative effects of positive or negative values from а starting point. Its purpose is to enhance comprehension of how an initial amount is impacted by subsequently added positive or negative values.
```

slug: components/chart/types/waterfall
tags: telerik,blazor,chart,waterfall
published: True
position: 0
---

# Waterfall Chart

> The Blazor Waterfall Chart is a form of data visualization that helps users understand the cumulative effect of sequentially introduced positive or negative values. These values can be either time-based or category based.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Blazor Waterfall Chart is a form of data visualization that helps users understand the cumulative effect of sequentially introduced positive or negative values. These values can be either time-based or category-based.
```

A Waterfall Chart is useful for different types of quantitative analysis related to inventory, cash flows, performance, etc.

![waterfall chart](images/waterfall-chart.png)

@[template](/_contentTemplates/chart/link-to-basics.md#understand-basics-and-databinding-first)

## Creating a Waterfall Chart

> 1. Add a `ChartSeries` to the `ChartSeriesItems` collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add a `ChartSeries` tag to the `ChartSeriesItems` collection.
```

> 2. Set its `Type` property to `ChartSeriesType.Waterfall` or `ChartSeriesType.HorizontalWaterfall`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Set its `Type` parameter to `ChartSeriesType.Waterfall` or `ChartSeriesType.HorizontalWaterfall`.
```

> 3. Provide a data collection to its `Data` property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Provide a data collection to its `Data` parameter.
```

                Color = "gray"
            },
            new CashFlowData
            {
                Period = "Ending\nBalance",
                Summary = "total",
                Color = "#555"
            }
        };
    }

    private class CashFlowData
    {
        public string Period { get; set; }
        public decimal? Amount { get; set; }
        public string Summary { get; set; }
        public string Color { get; set; }
    }
}
````

## Waterfall Chart Specific Appearance Settings

### Orientation

There are two types of Waterfall charts: 
 * Traditional Waterfall Chart - displays changes vertically. To use this Waterfall Chart, you need to set the series type to `ChartSeriesType.Waterfall`.
![vertical waterfall chart](images/vertical-waterfall-chart.png)
 * Horizontal waterfall chart - presents changes horizontally. To use this type of Waterfall Chart, you need to configure the series type as `ChartSeriesType.HorizontalWaterfall`.
![horizontal waterfall chart](images/horizontal-waterfall-chart.png)

### Labels

Each data item is decorated with a text label. You can control and customize them through the `<ChartCategoryAxisLabels />` and its children tags.

> * `Visible` - hide all labels by setting this parameter to `false`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `Visible`—When set to `false`, this parameter hides all labels.
```

> * `Step` - renders every n-th labels, where n is the value(double number) passed to the parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `Step`—Renders every n-th label, where n is the value (double number) passed to the parameter.
```

> * `Skip` - skips the first n labels, where n is the value (double number) passed to the parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `Skip`—Skips the first n number of labels, where n is the value (double number) passed to the parameter.
```

> * `Angle` - rotates the labels with the desired angle by n degrees, where n is the value passed to the parameter. It can take positive and negative numbers. To set this parameter use the `< ChartCategoryAxisLabelsRotation />` child tag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `Angle`—Rotates the labels with the desired angle by n degrees, where n is the value passed to the parameter. It can take positive and negative numbers. To set this parameter, use the `< ChartCategoryAxisLabelsRotation />` child tag.
```

> To rotate the markers use the `ChartCategoryAxisLabelsRotation` child tag and set its `Angle` parameter. It can take positive and negative numbers as value.

Reviewer 2: This sentence repeats the same that you have in the description of the `Angle` above. The only difference is that instead of "labels", you use "markers". Are these different elements? If they are, provide more precise descriptions for both elements. If they are the same, remove this paragraph.
```suggestion
To rotate the markers, use the `ChartCategoryAxisLabelsRotation` child tag and set its `Angle` parameter. It can take positive and negative numbers as values.
```
